your calories or increasing your
physical
activity levels unrealistic expectations
you can almost forget sometimes if you
don't track your workouts remember under
eating is not the answer hello
how are we doing i hope you're having a
really nice week today's one i thought i
would
share another sit down kind of like
informative video
basically i feel like i've had a repeat
of like similar
messages over on instagram all around
like how to know if i'm in a calorie
deficit kind of thing and also
a few mentioning like i've been in a
calorie deficit for x amount of time and
i haven't seen any progress or results
or i feel like i've plateaued so in this
one i just wanted to share
my favorite tips that have helped me the
most and ultimately
saved me so much time so we'll just get
straight into the video
if you could hit that like button i
would really appreciate it it just
supports my channel
so the first point is going to be
working on your nutrition i think this
is the most important because
that saying isn't that you can't out
train a bad diet as such and that is
really true but
i'm not going to sit here by any means
and say that you need to eliminate
things
or restrict certain food groups or do
any of that like you know i'm not about
that and i'm just going to explain in a
bit more depth so in order to achieve a
calorie deficit you simply just need to
be consuming
few calories or increasing your physical
activity levels or
doing both but this is where it's so
important like with your nutrition that
you
need to decide on what you find easiest
like i personally prefer
to increase my energy expenditure than
necessarily like
cut and cut my calories down but that's
just personal preference and again this
is why like it's
your journey if you want weight loss to
be sustainable longer-term
thing as such you need to find what
works for you best it's
it's pointless like wasting time and
energy trying to follow someone else's
routine or
nutrition plan because that's not going
to necessarily suit you like we're all
so different so yeah so if you find it
easier to cut down your calories
opposed to increasing your energy
expenditure on a daily then do that
or vice versa and when you're doing this
as well you need to remember like it's
not just going to be like a one size
fits all like you're not just going
to choose your like your lower calories
and that's going to be
right it's going to be a lot like
experimenting and trying different
things trying different like routines
just seeing what's maintainable the
whole when i'm in a calorie deficit i
prefer
to using both tools so my nutrition and
also increasing my energy expenditure
i find this the easiest way and it just
suits me a lot better than just doing
one or the other
and if you've been stuck on working out
how enough you find your
calorie deficit you need to work out
your maintenance calories first
there's loads of online calculators that
are really good for this just on google
and
just play around with them but just use
them as a guideline there's also some
formulas and stuff that you can follow
i have done a video on this previously
and with your nutrition
make sure you have foods that you
actually enjoy because that's another
reason why i think
calorie deficits don't work because say
if you're just setting yourself to these
unrealistic
expectations that you're gonna eat x y
and z food like chicken and rice three
times a day
that's it like how is that ever gonna
last or how's that going to be enjoyable
and
it's just really going to put you off
being in any form of calorie deficit you
really don't need to do that as well
it's not necessary you can have a really
nice balanced diet with all your
favorite foods in just like in a good
like moderation to suit yourself
and to keep you full so yeah make sure
your nutrition
is actually enjoyable there's so many
foods
like i did a food shop this week and you
can just get so many
like alternatives to suit yourself like
i really like
i found these chicken heck burgers this
week
and they're super high in protein and so
tasty as well
and they fit really nicely into my
macros when i first started tracking my
macros like it's actually crazy
how much more i eat now because i
realize i can have a lot more like
higher volume stuff i don't need to make
these like tiny little portions
and there's so many ways to get like
more whole foods in and i actually feel
fuller for a lot longer as well so
anyway that's enough on
nutrition and i could do a whole video
on that honestly i
love like nutrition right second point
is going
to be holding yourself accountable and
monitoring
your progress so oh god like this
could be like the most important thing
of all because it's something
i feel like we all do for like periods
of time maybe and then we kind of like
slack off or like things come up
and you slowly like slip off like
holding yourself countable i've done
that as well and it's fine like
say if you're really motivated to train
every day that then you find yourself
sort of like skipping over sets and reps
and then
three weeks later you'll realize you're
doing like a quarter of the workout that
you like set out to do for like a long
period of time i've done that in the
past and
that's absolutely fine you know you go
through phases of being more motivated
than others but then it just sort of
comes through it when you get to the
point and you're like
why have i not i set out to reach a
performance goal like lifting a certain
weight well have i not got that kind of
thing and you've just got to turn to
yourself and think hang on a second like
i've been skipping my steps and reps for
god knows how many weeks
and i'm sure we all do it i'm not gonna
sit here and just say i've never done
that before so
i think that is something that is super
important
and i love like holding myself
accountable i just think it's sort of
like backing yourself at the same time
say if you set yourself a six week
challenge like take some photos at the
beginning and do it like the same time
that kind of thing and obviously you can
use
if you have like a good relationship
with scales you can use weight there's
so many ways
of monitoring your progress but i
personally like just taking photos or
videos just make sure you keep it in the
same
position angle all of that and then
accountability as well like
tracking your workouts that has helped
me so much
you can always forget sometimes if you
don't track your workout sometimes i
feel like you can just go in willy-nilly
and then
you're like have i done three sets what
did i do four sets do i do five sets and
i just think it just keeps things a bit
fresher as well you can mix
like mix up your workouts a bit more
like just to suit yourself and keep
things nice and new and exciting
rather than just becoming like a chore
and doing the exact same
movements like day in day out and then
accountability with your nutrition i
personally love
tracking my macros but there's been
phases where i don't track for a bit
and then i think it was recently when i
haven't tracked for a good few months
and i just tracked like one day and i
was like oh wow i've been
under eating which is quite interesting
that'll bring you on to another point
yeah if you're eyeballing stuff like
it's crazy how quickly you can sort of
really be miss
concepting your meals and stuff and then
wondering like for example
i feel like i lost just some like muscle
mass recently
not necessarily weight but i feel like i
lost muscle mass and size and then i was
thinking hang on a sec quite
how like i've been eating the same meals
and then like i say when i tracked a
full day
i quickly realized if you are massively
under-eating not necessarily going to
help you
get leaner like you're just going to
lose it's going to eat away a lot of
your muscle as well that may have taken
years to build so i would never
recommend that so yeah i think
accountability
is just the absolute key for work as
well like not just
being in a calorie deficit but the next
one is making sure you're consistent so
you're not going to see any weight loss
like you need to stick out something for
at least like four to six weeks to see
or feel any sort of progress you're not
going to get results from being in a
carry deficit one week it needs to be a
longer period of time and
yeah be consistent but that's also why i
mentioned the first point which is just
making sure the only way you're going to
be consistent is if you create something
that you find personally sustainable and
you enjoy
otherwise that's just like it's a waste
of time isn't it doing these
like fab diets that are super extreme
because you think about it like two
weeks in you're gonna be like oh my god
like
get me out of this moving on to the next
point
which is just remember under eating is
not the answer
and when you create a calorie deficit
way too extreme and you do that for like
a
say an extended period of time your
body's going to switch to an energy
conservation mode
and this obviously causes your
metabolism to slow down and you start
feeling
super sluggish and quite edgy as
carbohydrate stores
run low this is when it switched to
using
protein and fats as like the dominant
source of energy then from here your
body's trying to meet just basic
energy needs and it's going to then run
off like your muscles and stuff which
you really don't want so it's never
beneficial to
eat too few calories not only is it
going to affect like your performance in
your sessions as well and just
how you feel on a daily you're not going
to be able to lift
what you would normally if you're
feeling your body and obviously food is
just
simply fuel in order for you to function
at its best and be optimal it's
you know food is absolutely vital for
your hormonal health as a female say
and obviously just day-to-day living so
yeah with
creating any calorie deficit you first
want to just work out your maintenance
calories and then
do a slight calorie deficit from there
see how your body responds over like a
week or two
and just see how you're feeling and sort
of add or change anything
from there onwards so they're just some
of the points that i feel like will help
if you're trying to work out why you're
not progressing or you don't feel like
a calorie deficit that you thought you
were in like is working kind of thing
so they're those things just to add on
to that like ways that i track things so
say my nutrition i just use some kitchen
scale and my fitness pal
i know exactly like say if you're
watching this and you're a pt yourself
or a fitness professional it's so easy
to just
forget to sort of hold yourself
accountable like long term as well
because we just all have like go through
different phases
and different times of our life and
stuff and obviously maybe that's not
taking a priority so it's completely
normal to
dip in and out every now and then anyway
i really hope this one was helpful and
useful let me know in
the comments if you'd like to see any
more of these videos or if you have any
requests as such
and i'll see you in the next video
or increasing your physical activity
levels
unrealistic expectations you can almost
forget
[Music]
you